Expand and re-organize InfluxDB Enterprise authn and authz docs (#3330)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/manage/security/get-started-auth.md

There are two aspects to consider:
*authentication* (verifying a user's identity)
and *authorization* (verifying what the user has access to).

After enabling authentication, we will walk through some basic examples of managing users and permissions.

## Enable authentication

Authentication is disabled by default in InfluxDB and InfluxDB Enterprise.
Once you have a working cluster
(that is, after [installing the data nodes](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/introduction/install-and-deploy/installation/data_node_installation/)),
we recommend enabling authenticatiion right away to control access to you cluster.

Authentication must be enabled _**before**_ authorization can be managed.

To enable authentication in a cluster, do the following:

1. Set `auth-enabled` to `true` in the `[http]` section of the config files for all meta and data nodes:
   ```toml
   [http]
     # ...
     auth-enabled = true
   ```
1. Next, create an admin user (if you haven't already).
   Using the [`influx` CLI](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/tools/influx-cli/),
   run the following command:
   ```
   CREATE USER admin WITH PASSWORD 'mypassword' WITH ALL PRIVILEGES
   ```

> 1. Restart InfluxDB Enterprise.

Reviewer: I feel like we should guide folks completely away from using InfluxQL for ANY user management once they switch to Enterprise.  We should recommend understanding and using the /user meta API and/or Chronograf for UI support.

> 1. Restart InfluxDB Enterprise.

Reviewer: Maybe the middle ground here is that you can continue to use InfluxQL ONLY for the most basic permissioning schemes.  But, given that Enterprise provides significantly richer capabilities we highly recommend getting familiar with the use of the /user meta API for user management once you switch to Enterprise.

> 1. Restart InfluxDB Enterprise.

Reviewer: added more context via #3472

_which can only be granted by InfluxQL_,
InfluxDB Enterprise's [full set of permissions](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/manage/security/authentication_and_authorization-api/#list-of-available-privileges)
allows for controling read and write access to data for all databases at once,
as well as cluster-management actions like creating or deleting resources.

## Available methods for managing authorization

There are three ways to manage authorizations in InfluxDB Enterprise.
Each is useful in different scenarios.
They are:

- the [`influx` CLI](#influxql) (1.x) with [InfluxQL](#manage-read-and-write-privileges-with-influxql)
- [Chronograf](#manage-specific-privileges-with-chronograf)
- the [InfluxDB Enterprise meta API](#influxdb-enterprise-meta-api)

Each of these allows you to manage permissions for specific users.

### Manage read and write privileges with InfluxQL

{{% note %}}
InfluxQL provides a quick way to grant read and write privileges.
However, you can only grant `READ`, `WRITE`, and `ALL PRIVILEGES` privileges with this method.
For more, see [Manage specific privileges with Chronograf](#manage-specific-privileges-with-chronograf) below.
{{% /note %}}

> InfluxQL can be used to manage basic read and write privileges.

Author: With this sentence I was trying to remind the reader of a central idea in this doc: there are *multiple* ways to manage auth. Maybe "can be used" isn't the best way to phrase this, however...

For example, you can grant Alice the ability to write to a database *X*,
and then grant Bob the ability to read from that database.

To demonstrate, let's create a new user and allow her some access.
First, log in as an admin user.
The simplest way to do this is to use the `auth` command.

```sh
$ influx
Connected to http://localhost:8086 version 1.9.5-c1.9.5
InfluxDB shell version: 1.8.7
> auth
```

This will prompt for username and password.
Enter the credentials for the admin you created above in ["Enable authentication"](#enable-authentication).

Then run:

```sh
> CREATE USER alice WITH PASSWORD 'admin'
```

This creates a regular, non-admin user.

Since we are logged in as an admin user, we can create a database.
Create a database called `test` by running

```sh
> CREATE DATABASE test
```

Now we can grant Alice permission to write to the `test` database.

```sh
> GRANT WRITE ON test TO alice
```

We can inspect Alice's permissions with

```sh
> SHOW GRANTS FOR alice
database privilege
-------- ---------
test     WRITE
```

### Manage specific privileges with Chronograf

> The Chronograf user interface can manage the [full set of permissions](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/manage/security/authentication_and_authorization-api/#list-of-available-privileges).
> 
> The permissions listed in Chronograf (and available through the API) are global for the cluster.
> Outside of [FGA](), the only database-level permissions available are the basic `READ` and `WRITE`.
> These can only be managed using [the `influx` CLI and InfluxQL](#manage-read-and-write-privileges-with-influxql).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use [the `influx` CLI and InfluxQL](#manage-read-and-write-privileges-with-influxql) to manage global  [fine-grained authorization (permissions)](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/guides/fine-grained-authorization/) for a cluster in Chronograf (or through the InfluxDB Enterprise meta API).
InfluxQL database-level permissions `READ` and `WRITE` are also available.
```

Author: As with https://github.com/influxdata/docs-v2/pull/3330#discussion_r748527350, I think this is a case where our usual concise, procedure style ("Use...") hides the larger idea. This guide exists to provide a sense of how these methods interoperate.

To manage privileges in Chronograf:

1. Login to Chronograf as an admin user.
2. Click on **InfluxDB Admin** → **Users**.
3. Each user has a dropdown for **Permissions**.
   Select the desired permissions and click **Apply**.

### InfluxDB Enterprise meta API

> For information on using the meta API, see [here](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/manage/security/authentication_and_authorization-api).

Reviewer 2: Let's omit the extra click for folks by dropping this section and moving link to top

---
title: Get started with authentication and authorization
description: >
  Learn the basics of managing authentication and authorization in InfluxDB Enterprise
menu:
  enterprise_influxdb_1_9:
    name: Get started with authentication and authorization
    parent: Manage security
weight: 30
related:
  - /enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/guides/fine-grained-authorization/
  - /{{< latest "chronograf" >}}/administration/managing-influxdb-users/
---

> To secure and manage access to an InfluxDB Enterprise cluster, consider the following two aspects:
> - *authentication* (verifying a user's identity)
> - *authorization* (verifying what the user has access to)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To secure and manage access to an InfluxDB Enterprise cluster, do the following:
1. Verify user identity by [configuring authentication](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/configure/security/authentication/).
2. Set up what users have access by [managing user authorization](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/manage/security/get-started-auth/#manage-user-authorization) with [permissions](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/manage/security/permissions/#permissions).
```

{{% enterprise-warning-authn-b4-authz %}}

## Permissions in InfluxDB Enterprise

InfluxDB Enterprise has an [expanded set of 16 permissions](/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/administration/manage/security/permissions/#permissions).
These permissions allow for
controlling read and write access to data for all databases at once,
as well as permitting certain cluster-management actions like creating or deleting resources.

InfluxB 1.x OSS only supports database-level privileges: `READ` and `WRITE`.
A third permission, `ALL`, grants admin privileges.
These can only be _can only be granted by using InfluxQL_.

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's move this conceptual info into the "User permissions" doc and keep this doc more procedural

## Manage user authorization

> There are three ways to manage authorizations in InfluxDB Enterprise:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manage authorizations in InfluxDB Enterprise, use one of the following:
```

> - via [InfluxQL](#manage-read-and-write-privileges-with-influxql)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [InfluxQL](#manage-read-and-write-privileges-with-influxql)
```

> - via [Chronograf](#manage-enterprise-permissions-with-chronograf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Chronograf](#manage-enterprise-permissions-with-chronograf)
```

> - via the [InfluxDB Enterprise meta API](#manage-enterprise-permissions-with-the-meta-api) (**Recommended**)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [InfluxDB Enterprise meta API](#manage-enterprise-permissions-with-the-meta-api) (**Recommended**)
```

Reviewer 2: maybe put recommended first?

Author: @timhallinflux and I agreed to keep these in order of complexity.

### Manage read and write privileges with InfluxQL

{{% note %}}
InfluxQL can can only grant `READ`, `WRITE`, and `ALL PRIVILEGES` privileges.

> To use the full set of permissions, [use Chronograf](#manage-specific-privileges-with-chronograf) or the [Meta API (recommended)](#influxdb-enterprise-meta-api).

Reviewer 2: let's move this up to "use one of the following" list to help folks make a choice

{{% /note %}}

Use InfluxQL if you only need to manage basic `READ`, `WRITE`, and `ALL` privileges.
<!-- For example, you can grant Alice the ability to write to a database *X*, -->
<!-- and then grant Bob the ability to read from that database. -->

> If this level of permission is sufficient, use InfluxQL to manage authorizations.

Reviewer 2: is this recommended? if not, think line 48 is sufficient

> (For instance, if you have upgraded from InfluxDB OSS 1.x to InfluxDB Enterprise
> and do not need the more detailed authorization levels in InfluxDB Enterprise,
> you can continue to use InfluxQL as before.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(For instance, if you upgraded from InfluxDB OSS 1.x and do not need the more detailed authorization in InfluxDB Enterprise, continue to use InfluxQL.)
```

{{% warn %}}
We recommend operators *do not* mix and match InfluxQL
with other authorization management methods (Chronograf and the API).
Doing so may lead to inconsistencies in user permissions.
{{% /warn %}}

### Manage Enterprise permissions with Chronograf

> The Chronograf user interface can manage the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use Chronograf to manage the
```
